### Introduction
 *  Generalizations such as the ones in this book are subject to exception and refinement.
 *  The general characteristics of American culture have been ascribed by various observers to such factors as its temperate climate; its nineteenth-century history as a large country with an open frontier to the west; its citizens’ origins among dissenters and the lower classes in Europe; its high level of technological development; the influence of Christianity; the declining influence of Christianity; its capitalist economic system; and “God’s benevolent attention.”
 * “People act the way they were taught to act, and they all have different teachers.” There are reasons for the way people behave, even if we can’t be certain what those reasons are
 * It is usually helpful, when trying to understand others, to understand how we see ourselves.
 * Americans often say they have no culture, since they often conceive of culture as an overlay of arbitrary customs to be found only in other countries.
 * Like people everywhere else, Americans, as they grow up, are taught certain attitudes toward other countries and the people who live in them. Parents, teachers, schoolbooks, and the media are principal sources of information and attitudes about foreigners and foreign countries. Americans generally believe that theirs is a superior country, probably the greatest country in the world. It is economically and militarily powerful; its influence extends to all parts of the globe. Americans generally believe their democratic political system is the best possible one, since it gives all citizens the right and opportunity to try to influence government policy and since it protects citizens from arbitrary government actions. They also believe the system is superior because it gives them the freedom to complain about anything they consider wrong with it. Americans generally believe their country’s free-market economic system has enabled them to enjoy one of the highest standards of living in the history of the world.
 * If Americans consider their country to be superior, then it cannot be surprising that they often consider other countries to be inferior. The people in those other countries are assumed to be not quite as intelligent or hardworking or sensible as Americans are.
 * Americans tend to suppose that people born in other countries are less fortunate than they are and that most foreigners would prefer to live in the U.S. The fact that millions of foreigners do seek to enter or remain in the U.S. illegally every year supports this view. (The fact that billions of foreigners do not seek entry is ignored or discounted.)
 * Foreign visitors are well advised to remember that it is not malice or intentional ignorance that leads so many Americans to treat them like inferior beings. The Americans are, once again, acting the way they have been taught to act. They have been taught that they are superior, and they have learned the lesson well. 
 * Many Americans will also make an exception for a foreigner who has demonstrated some skill, personality trait, or intellectual capability that commands respect. British writers, German scientists, Korean martial arts specialists, and Kenyan runners, among others, readily have many Americans’ respect.

### American values and assumptions
 * As people grow up, they learn certain values and assumptions from their parents and other relatives, their teachers, books, newspapers, television programs, the Internet, and a variety of other sources. Values and assumptions are closely related, but there are some differences between them. The ways in which different cultures approach the issue of appropriate roles for men and women provide a good example of the relationship between values and assumptions. Values are ideas about what is right and wrong, desirable and undesirable, normal and abnormal, proper and improper. 
 * People who grow up in a particular culture share certain values and assumptions. That does not mean they all share exactly the same values to exactly the same extent. It does mean that most of them, most of the time, agree with each other’s ideas about what is right and wrong, desirable and undesirable, and so on. They also agree, mostly, with each other’s assumptions about human nature, social relationships, and so on. Any list of values and assumptions is inherently arbitrary.
 * The most important thing to understand about Americans is probably their devotion to individualism. They are trained from very early in their lives to consider themselves as separate individuals who are responsible for their own situations in life and their own destinies. They are not trained to see themselves as members of a close-knit, interdependent family, religious group, tribe, nation, or any other collectivity.  In the United States, very few children are raised to believe that their principal destiny is to serve their family, their country, or their God.
 * The Malay students’ upbringing emphasizes the importance of family relationships and individual subservience to the family and the community. Many Americans do not display the degree of respect for their parents that people in more traditional or family-oriented societies commonly do. From their point of view, being born to particular parents was a sort of historical or biological accident. The parents fulfill their responsibilities to the children while the children are young, but when the children have reached “the age of independence,” the close child-parent tie is loosened, occasionally even broken.
 * It is not unusual for Americans who are beyond the age of about twenty-two (and sometimes younger) and who are still living with their parents to pay their parents for room and board. Elderly parents living with their grown children may do likewise. Paying for room and board is a way of showing independence, self-reliance, and responsibility for oneself.
 * Closely associated with the value they place on individualism is the importance Americans assign to privacy. Americans assume that most people “need some time to themselves” or “some time alone” to think about things or recover their spent psychological energy. Most Americans have great difficulty understanding people who always want to be with another person, who dislike being alone. Americans tend to regard such people as weak or dependent. If the parents can afford it, each child will have his or her own bedroom. Having one’s own bedroom, even as an infant, inculcates in a person the notion that she is entitled to a place of her own where she can be by herself and—notice—keep her possessions. She will have her clothes, her toys, her books, and so on. These things will be hers and no one else’s
 * Americans are also distinctive in the degree to which they believe in the ideal, as stated in their Declaration of Independence, that “all men are created equal.” Americans are generally quite uncomfortable when someone treats them with obvious deference. They dislike being the subjects of open displays of respect—being bowed to, deferred to, or treated as though they could do no wrong or make no unreasonable requests.
 * This is not to say that Americans make no distinctions among themselves as a result of such factors as gender, age, wealth, or social position. They do. But the distinctions are acknowledged in subtle ways. Tone of voice, order of speaking, choice of words, seating arrangements— such are the means by which Americans acknowledge status differences among themselves. People of higher status are more likely to speak first, louder, and longer. They sit at the head of the table or in the most comfortable chair. They feel free to interrupt other speakers more than others feel free to interrupt them. The higher-status person may put a hand on the shoulder of the lower-status person. If there is touching between the people involved, the higher-status person will touch first.
 * Their notions of equality lead Americans to be quite informal in their general behavior and in their relationships with other people. Store clerks and table servers, for example, may introduce themselves by their first (given) names and treat customers in a casual, friendly manner. American clerks, like other Americans, have been trained to believe that they are as valuable as any other people, even if they happen to be engaged at a given time in an occupation that others might consider lowly. 
 * A photograph showing the college president, dressed in shorts and an old T-shirt, jogging past one of the classroom buildings on his campus. Americans are likely to find the photograph appealing: “Here is a college president who’s just like anyone else. He doesn’t think he’s too good for us.”
 * The superficial friendliness for which Americans are so well-known is related to their informal, egalitarian approach to other people. “Hi!” they will say to just about anyone, or “Howya doin?” (that is, “How are you doing?” or “How are you?”). This behavior reflects not so much a special interest in the person addressed as a concern (not conscious) for showing that one is a “regular guy,” part of a group of normal, pleasant people.
 * Americans are generally less concerned about history and traditions than are people from older societies. “History doesn’t matter,” many of them will say. “It’s the future that counts.” They look ahead. They have the idea that what happens in the future is within their control, or at least subject to their influence.
 *  This fundamental American belief in progress and a better future contrasts sharply with the fatalistic (Americans are likely to use that term with a negative or critical connotation) attitude that characterizes people from many other cultures, notably Latin American, Asian, and Arab, where there is a pronounced reverence for the past. In those cultures the future is often considered to be in the hands of fate, God, or at least the few powerful people or families that dominate the society. The idea that people in general can somehow shape their own futures seems naïve, arrogant, or even sacrilegious. Americans are generally impatient with people they see as passively accepting conditions that are less than desirable.
 * Americans assume human nature is basically good, not evil. A widespread (but not universally held) assumption is that people who violate the law do so more because of adverse environmental conditions such as poverty, domestic violence, or the media than because they themselves are irredeemably evil individuals. 
 * They believe the democratic form of government is the best - because it exemplifies individualism, freedom and equality.
 * Americans assume themselves to be improvable. We have already mentioned their participation in various educational and training programs. Mention should also be made of the array of “self-help” and “howto” books Americans buy as well as of the number of group activities they join in order to make themselves “better.
 *  For Americans, time is a resource that, like water or coal, can be used well or poorly. “Time is money,” they say. “You only get so much time in this life; you’d best use it wisely.” The ideal person is punctual (that is, arrives at the scheduled time for a meeting or event) and is considerate of other people’s time (that is, does not “waste people’s time” with conversation or other activity that has no visible, beneficial outcome). Americans are sometimes seen by foreign visitors as automatons, unhuman creatures who are so tied to their clocks, their schedules, and their daily planners that they cannot participate in or enjoy the human interactions that are the truly important things in life.
 * In this context the “fast-food industry” can be seen as a clear example of an American cultural product. Fast-food establishments prosper in a country where many people want to minimize the amount of time they spend preparing and eating meals. 
 * There is still a strong belief that the ideal person is a hard worker. A hard worker is one who “gets right to work” on a task, works efficiently, and completes the task in a timely way that meets reasonably high standards of quality.
 *  Americans like action. They do indeed believe it is important to devote significant energy to their jobs or to other daily responsibilities. Beyond that, they tend to believe they should be doing something most of the time. They are usually not content, as people from many countries are, to sit for long periods and talk with other people. They get restless and impatient. They believe they should be doing something, or at least making plans and arrangements for doing something later.
 * Family backgrounds, educational attainments, and other characteristics are considered less important in identifying people than the jobs they have. There is usually a close relationship between the job a person has and the level of the person’s income. Americans tend to measure a person’s success in life by referring to the amount of money he or she has acquired and to the title or position that person has achieved. For Americans, though, this materialistic bent is natural and proper. They have been taught that it is good to achieve, to work hard, and to acquire more material badges of their success and in the process assure a better future for themselves and their families.
 * Americans, as we’ve said before, generally consider themselves to be frank, open, and direct in their dealings with other people. Americans usually assume that conflicts or disagreements are best settled by means of forthright discussions among the people involved.
 * The word assertive is the adjective Americans commonly use to describe the person who plainly and directly expresses feelings and requests. They will try to do so in a manner they call “constructive,” that is, a manner the other person will not find offensive or unacceptable. 
 * Americans, however, are often less direct and open than they realize. Americans are reluctant to speak openly when • the topic is in an area they consider excessively personal, such as unpleasant body or mouth odors, sexual functioning, or personal inadequacies; • they want to say no to a request that has been made of them but do not want to offend or hurt the feelings of the person who made the request; • they are not well enough acquainted with the other person to be confident that direct discussion will be accepted in the constructive way that is intended; and, paradoxically, • they know the other person very well (it might be a spouse or close friend) and they do not wish to risk giving offense and creating negative feelings by talking about some delicate problem.
